modules/1-crafting-serving-training-notebook.md, before:

# Experimenting and creating our Serving and Training script

In this first module we are going to open JupyterHub and logging-in to create our user session, let's start by exposing JupyterHub using `kubectl port-forward.`

> **Note:** We are not exposing via LoadBalancer to avoid security risks, since we are using Jupyter dummy auth.

## Accessing JupyterHub

Exposing JupyterHub endpoint:

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/proxy-public 8080:80 -n jupyterhub
```

> You can choose any port that you'd like (local-port):(service-port). In the above example we are using `8080`, so open the `http://localhost:8080` in your local browser.

Since we are using JupyterHub `dummy` auth mechanism, we can define **any user and password** in-order to get access to Jupyter Console:

![ML Ops Arch Diagram](../static/jupyter-login.png)

Select [X] the GPU Server profile in JupyterHub and click in `Start`.

![ML Ops Arch Diagram](../static/server-start.png)

Now wait for the Server to start up.

## Downloading Notebook

We already have developed a Jupyter Notebook with the steps to craft a train and serving script, let's start by openning a `Terminal` window in our Jupyter console and downloading our script from GitHub:

![ML Ops Arch Diagram](../static/terminal-open.png)

Once you have your `Terminal` opened, execute the below script to download the notebook:

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aws-samples/gen-ai-on-eks/main/notebooks/llm_train_serve.ipynb
```

![ML Ops Arch Diagram](../static/terminal-download.png)

Now go back to the previous screen, by returning to the pevious browsar tab, or clicking on the JupyterHub logo in the top left corner, and open the Notebook:

![ML Ops Arch Diagram](../static/notebook1.png)

Now you can follow the steps on Jupyter Notebook.

Commit message:

1/ adding training job manifest. 2/ Adding a creation artifact pipeline notebook. 3/ Adding replicas to 0 for default training raycluster

modules/1-crafting-serving-training-notebook.md, after:

# Experimenting and creating our Serving and Training script

In this first module we are going to open JupyterHub and logging-in to create our user session, let's start by exposing JupyterHub using `kubectl port-forward.`

> **Note:** We are not exposing via LoadBalancer to avoid security risks, since we are using Jupyter dummy auth.

## Accessing JupyterHub

Exposing JupyterHub endpoint:

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/proxy-public 8080:80 -n jupyterhub
```

> You can choose any port that you'd like (local-port):(service-port). In the above example we are using `8080`, so open the `http://localhost:8080` in your local browser.

Since we are using JupyterHub `dummy` auth mechanism, we can define **any user and password** in-order to get access to Jupyter Console:

![ML Ops Arch Diagram](../static/jupyter-login.png)

Select [X] the GPU Server profile in JupyterHub and click in `Start`.

![ML Ops Arch Diagram](../static/server-start.png)

Now wait for the Server to start up.

## Option 1: Selecting the testing Notebook

In the left panel there is a "notebooks" folder. You have to choose the Notebook named "`<model>`-training.ipynb" and copy it into the root folder because the "notebooks" folder in exposed as a read-only filesystem to keep the original files.

Now you can follow the steps on Jupyter Notebook.

##  Option 2: Downloading Notebook

We already have developed a Jupyter Notebook with the steps to craft a train and serving script, let's start by openning a `Terminal` window in our Jupyter console and downloading our script from GitHub:

![ML Ops Arch Diagram](../static/terminal-open.png)

Once you have your `Terminal` opened, execute the below script to download the notebook:

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aws-samples/gen-ai-on-eks/main/notebooks/llm_train_serve.ipynb
```

![ML Ops Arch Diagram](../static/terminal-download.png)

Now go back to the previous screen, by returning to the pevious browsar tab, or clicking on the JupyterHub logo in the top left corner, and open the Notebook:

![ML Ops Arch Diagram](../static/notebook1.png)

Now you can follow the steps on Jupyter Notebook.
